We've now learned how to export
functions from assembly scripts to
TypeScript into JavaScript,
and then we called it here.
We can go the other way too.
We can import functions
into our assembly scripts.
This is where it gets
a little bit more tricky.
And I know I've been saying that
the entire course like, this is gonna get
a little more complicated, this is
gonna get a little more complicated.
Yeah, this is totally iterative.
We are building step by step by step.
So by the end, we will have something
that is gonna look a little complex but
we're gonna understand everything
that we're doing here.
So I am now in the Working repo,
I'm now in 3.
So if something went terribly wrong and
you're having issues,
you're getting the bad magic number error,
things like that,
you can just go to this repo error and
you'll be exactly where I am.
We're gonna talk about custom imports,
but for
now we're gonna do a few built in imports.
One of the more useful function imports
we want to call in our assembly script is
the abort function.
The abort function allows us to terminate
execution if something has gone
terribly wrong.
Which it shouldn't for this course,
but it's really useful to know.
So let's go back to our -1 and
let's add an abort if a certain number
is passed, and just we'll call abort.
So I'm jumping back.
I'm gonna close all these other
files since I will get confused.
Close you.
And so now I'm back in our
assembly directory in index.ts.
So now I can say if n =
Else this should be equals 44.
And we're just gonna call abort on that.
Then we save it.
And we're gonna stop that server.
Actually what I'm gonna do now, NPM run,
I'm gonna run, so I opened a new terminal.
And I'm just gonna run the server
in the background because I hate to
keep stopping and starting and
we will keep jumping back to the terminal.
So now, in case you get confused later,
there is another terminal and
the server is running in the background.
Okay, and let's just verify that
localhost 3000, still working, cool.
Next we need to compile our
assembly script to function again.
So NPM run sbuild.
Okay?
So jumping back, so that means if we
call 44 it should throw an error.
So we're passing 44 here.
Let's see if that works.
Hey it did.
Actually no, it didn't work.
Aah.
So, assembly script has
the concept of built in functions.
But to use those functions, we have
to use that assembly script loader.
Remember earlier in the steps when
we imported that for saving dev,
where we import it as save dev
the assemble script loader separately from
the assembly script library itself.
The loader is a tiny utility function
that wraps glue code that does some of
the heavy lifting for us.
So the abort function is built into
the loader, but unfortunately,
we're not using the loader right now,
we're gonna use it in the next step.
But for now, we can pass our
own custom version of aborts.
So we can make it do whatever we want.
The abort function is just
a JavaScript call that has
no specific meaning to WebAssembly itself.
It only knows that it's an important
function, when we call it,
it reaches back out to
JavaScript to execute that.
So let's create an abort function that,
what do we want to do?
We want it to throw an error,
because that's what we're doing.
We want it to throw so it'll pause
execution of our program, all right?
So let's go and do that.
So I'm going to refer
back to my notes now.
A word on imports.
So imports are the second argument to
instantiate streaming and instantiate.
The first one they take is the actual
WebAssembly module itself.
But it also takes this idea of imports.
That is the imported functions into
WebAssembly that we're gonna call,
because it's a two way street.
You can call a function from WebAssembly,
you can call functions
from JavaScript as well.
But to do that, we need to define them and
then pass them in.
So we're gonna do that with
the imports object, and
it's gonna look something like this.
So, let's code that up.
So I'm gonna go into,
our loader file again.
And we're gonna make use
of this constructor.
So I'm gonna say this underscore
imports equals an object.
And we're gonna call this inf,
which I'll explain why in a second.
And that itself is an object,
and within the object,
we're gonna find the abort function.
And so right now we're designing
the functionality that we want to
happen in WebAssembly when
this function is called.
So in this case, I wanna throw
a new error that's gonna say,
abort called from, WASM file.
Okay, that's fine.
But we still need to actually
pass those imports into that
compile time when we compile and
instantiate our WebAssembly code.
So I'm gonna add a second
argument to our WASM,
let me say by default we're
gonna get our own imports,
but we're gonna use this default value for
now.
And then I'm gonna take those imports, and
I'm gonna pass them both
to the WASM fallback.
And as the second argument
through instantiate streaming.
And then we're gonna do the same thing for
the WASM fallback, and
we're gonna pass it in and instantiate.
So, this is colloquially known as the
imports object, I like to call it imports,
but you'll see referred to as imports
object, because it's an object containing
all of the functions that we're
gonna import into our code.
So now, because we're not actually
touching the assembly script,
this is just the glue code,
we don't need to recompile.
Let's go ahead and try our code again and
see if that works.
And it did work.
And if we want to get specific,
I'm gonna go to sources and
I can say pause on exceptions.
And now it's gonna pause because it's
being called in our WebAssembly.